I. Introduction (10 min) - Ryan & Aaron

A. Welcome and Introductions
B. Overview of the workshop
b1. Explain the focus: Learning all about InfoStealers through hands-on malware analysis followed by custom code writing, testing, and enhancement
b2. Discuss the tools & techniques covered
b3. Explain the flow: Ryan starts with an overview of current day infostealers through introducing LummaC2 code analysis using Ghidra. Once workshop attendees have learned how a top infostealer such as Lumma does its job through hands-on analysis, Aaron takes over to show students how to write their own infostealer > compile it > run it > code to make it even better.
C. Set ground rules and expectations (active participation, respectful environment, encouraging questions, and discussion!)

II. Lab Environment Setup (20 min) - Aaron

A. GitHub Lab Instructions
B. Setup accounts and get VMs running - OnDefend Lab Enviornment
- Note: This is Aaron's lab, built from the ground up. Totally free accounts. No personal info required.
C. Troubleshooting

III. Introduction to InfoStealers (45 min) - Ryan

A. What is an InfoStealer? How have they evolved over the years?
B. What is LummaC2? Why did we pick it for this workshop?
C. How does LummaC2 steal data? Which data can it steal? How does it steal data?
C. Initial malware analysis stages in Ghidra
c1. Removing obfuscation techniques from LummaC2
c2. Analyzing initial enumeration and .txt file exfiltration
c3. Analyzing crypto wallet stealing methods

BREAK!!! (15 min)

IV. Advanced InfoStealer Analysis (45 min) – Ryan

A. Continued malware analysis in Ghidra
a1. Analyzing browser stealing via app data
a2. Analyzing browser 2FA extension data stealing
a3. Analyzing browser database stealing

V. Writing an InfoStealer: Part 1 (45 min) – Aaron
Goal: Show how to write a basic infostealer, modeled after LummaC2

A. Writing a custom infostealer
a1. Review pre-provided code snippets
a2. Augment code live in class
a3. Compile custom code
B. Run the infostealer
b1. Review data exfiltration
b2. Comparison: Compare the functionality of the Malware-as-a-Service Lumma to the student's custom code

C. BREAK!!! (15 min)

VI. Writing an AI-Enhanced InfoStealer (45 min) – Aaron
Goal: Showing how to transition to a 2026-era malware specimen that uses AI to select data for exfiltration rather than relying soley on static, pre-selected pathing and/or artifacts 

A. Updating the custom infostealer using AI components
a1. Implementing a CNN model in memory
a2. Transitioning from static pathing to behavioral exfiltration
a3. Compile custom code
B. Run the enhanced infostealer
b1. Review data exfiltration
b2. Takeways and comparisons
